client/README.md, before:

# sstable-to-arrow client

The Python notebooks here contain demos I used during my presentation. Use
`4_with_cuda` if your machine has CUDA installed, otherwise use `3_no_cuda`.

The big picture goal is to enable GPU-accelerated analytic queries (using the
[RAPIDS](https://rapids.ai/index.html) ecosystem) on the Cassandra database.

Speed of machine learning tasks on a GPU compared to a CPU (from [RAPIDS](https://rapids.ai/about.html)):

![speed](https://rapids.ai/assets/images/rapids-end-to-end-performance-chart-oss-page-r4.svg)

The RAPIDS ecosystem is highly accessible, and most common machine learning and
data science libraries for CPUs have an equivalent RAPIDS library that runs on
the GPU:

![familiar python apis](assets/rapids-vs-cpu-1.png)

![rapids equivalents](assets/rapids-vs-cpu-2.png)

Note the use of [Apache Arrow](http://arrow.apache.org/) as the underlying
memory format. It's based on columns rather than rows, allowing faster analytic
queries, and also supports zero-copy reads for extremely fast data access.

It also includes an inter-process communication (IPC) mechanism used to transfer
an Arrow record batch (i.e. a table) between processes. The IPC format is
identical to the in-memory format, which eliminates any extra copying or
de/serialization costs.

## Next steps

- improve support for different types and cases in current implementation
- build a native SSTable reader in the cuDF project, e.g. `cudf.from_sstable()`
- read DSE SSTable format

## Other applications

- parsing different SSTable versions across different programming languages could help in migration from Cassandra to Astra
- could also use Kaitai to parse and document CQL protocol

Commit message:

update readme and include python scripts

client/README.md, after:

# sstable-to-arrow client

The Python notebooks here contain demos I used during my presentation. Use
`4_with_cuda` if your machine has CUDA installed, otherwise use `3_no_cuda`.

The big picture goal is to enable GPU-accelerated analytic queries (using the
[RAPIDS](https://rapids.ai/index.html) ecosystem) on the Cassandra database.

Speed of machine learning tasks on a GPU compared to a CPU (from [RAPIDS](https://rapids.ai/about.html)):

![speed](https://rapids.ai/assets/images/rapids-end-to-end-performance-chart-oss-page-r4.svg)

The RAPIDS ecosystem is highly accessible, and most common machine learning and
data science libraries for CPUs have an equivalent RAPIDS library that runs on
the GPU:

![familiar python apis](assets/rapids-vs-cpu-1.png)

![rapids equivalents](assets/rapids-vs-cpu-2.png)

Note the use of [Apache Arrow](http://arrow.apache.org/) as the underlying
memory format. It's based on columns rather than rows, allowing faster analytic
queries, and also supports zero-copy reads for extremely fast data access.

It also includes an inter-process communication (IPC) mechanism used to transfer
an Arrow record batch (i.e. a table) between processes. The IPC format is
identical to the in-memory format, which eliminates any extra copying or
de/serialization costs.

## Getting started

1. Clone this repository `git clone https://github.com/datastax/sstable-to-arrow.git`
2. Navigate to this directory `cd sstable-to-arrow/client`
3. Create a new virtualenv inside this directory `python -m venv ./sstable_to_arrow_venv`
4. Activate the virtualenv with `source ./sstable_to_arrow_venv/bin/activate`
5. Install the requirements by running `pip install -r requirements.txt`
6. Launch the sstable-to-arrow server from [`../cpp`](../cpp)
7. Run `python with_cuda.py` if your system has CUDA support, otherwise run `python no_cuda.py`

## Next steps

- improve support for different types and cases in current implementation
- build a native SSTable reader in the cuDF project, e.g. `cudf.from_sstable()`
- read DSE SSTable format

## Other applications

- parsing different SSTable versions across different programming languages could help in migration from Cassandra to Astra
- could also use Kaitai to parse and document CQL protocol
